Debezium migration (#17945)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v23.1/debezium.md

---
title: Migrate and Replicate Data with Debezium
summary: Use Debezium to migrate data to a CockroachDB cluster.
toc: true
docs_area: migrate
---

> [Debezium](https://debezium.io/) is a self-hosted, distributed platform that can be used to read data from a variety of sources and push that data into Kafka. You can use Debezium to [migrate data to CockroachDB](#migrate-data-to-cockroachdb) from an existing, publicly hosted database containing application data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Debezium](https://debezium.io/) is a self-hosted distributed platform that can read data from a variety of sources and import it into Kafka. You can use Debezium to [migrate data to CockroachDB](#migrate-data-to-cockroachdb) from another database that is accessible over the public internet.
```
Is this what you mean by "publicly hosted"?

As of this writing, Debezium supports the following database [sources](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/index.html):

- MongoDB
- MySQL
- PostgreSQL
- SQL Server
- Oracle
- Db2
- Cassandra
- Vitess (incubating)
- Spanner (incubating)
- JDBC (incubating)

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> Migrating with Debezium is only recommended for users already familiar with Kafka. Refer to the [Debezium documentation](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/architecture.html) for information on how Debezium is deployed with Kafka Connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating with Debezium requires familiarity with Kafka. Refer to the [Debezium documentation](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/architecture.html) for information on how Debezium is deployed with Kafka Connect.
```

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Before you begin

Complete the following items before using Debezium:

> - Ensure you have a secure, [publicly available]({% link cockroachcloud/network-authorization.md %}) CockroachDB cluster running the latest **{{ page.version.version }}** [production release](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/{{ page.version.version }}), and have created a [SQL user]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#sql-users).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure a secure [publicly-accessible]({% link cockroachcloud/network-authorization.md %}) CockroachDB cluster running the latest **{{ page.version.version }}** [production release](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/{{ page.version.version }}) with at least one [SQL user]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#sql-users), make a note of the credentials for the SQL user.
```

> - Have [Debezium](https://debezium.io/), [Kafka Connect](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/connect/index.html), and [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) already set up. This documentation assumes you have already added data from your [source database](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/index.html) to a Kafka topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install and configure [Debezium](https://debezium.io/), [Kafka Connect](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/connect/index.html), and [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/). This documentation assumes you have already added data from your [source database](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/index.html) to a Kafka topic.
```

## Migrate data to CockroachDB

Once all of the [prerequisite steps](#before-you-begin) are completed, you can use Debezium to migrate data to CockroachDB.

> 1. To write data from Kafka to CockroachDB, use the Confluent JDBC Sink Connector. First use the following `dockerfile` to create a custom image with the JDBC driver:

Reviewer: Worth linking to docs or download page for the JDBC Sink Connector?

Reviewer 2: This is a good link: https://www.confluent.io/hub/confluentinc/kafka-connect-jdbc

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell

>     FROM quay.io/debezium/connect:latest

Reviewer: This looks like a Dockerfile to me .. is that important? I don't think `shell` is the right lexer.

    ENV KAFKA_CONNECT_JDBC_DIR=$KAFKA_CONNECT_PLUGINS_DIR/kafka-connect-jdbc \

    ARG POSTGRES_VERSION=latest
    ARG KAFKA_JDBC_VERSION=latest

    # Deploy PostgreSQL JDBC Driver
    RUN cd /kafka/libs && curl -sO https://jdbc.postgresql.org/download/postgresql-$POSTGRES_VERSION.jar

    # Deploy Kafka Connect JDBC
    RUN mkdir $KAFKA_CONNECT_JDBC_DIR && cd $KAFKA_CONNECT_JDBC_DIR &&\
       curl -sO https://packages.confluent.io/maven/io/confluent/kafka-connect-jdbc/$KAFKA_JDBC_VERSION/kafka-connect-jdbc-$KAFKA_JDBC_VERSION.jar
    ~~~

> 1. Create the JSON configuration file needed to create the sink:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the JSON configuration file that you will use to create the sink:
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    {
       "name": "pg-sink",
       "config": {
           "connector.class": "io.confluent.connect.jdbc.JdbcSinkConnector", 
           "tasks.max": "10",
           "topics" : "{topic.example.table}",
           "connection.url": "jdbc:postgresql://{host}:{port}/{user}?sslmode=require",
           "connection.user": "{username}",
           "connection.password": "{password}",
           "insert.mode": "upsert",
           "pk.mode": "record_value",
           "pk.fields":"id",
           "database.time_zone": "UTC",
           "auto.create":true,
           "auto.evolve": false,
           "transforms": "unwrap",
           "transforms.unwrap.type": "io.debezium.transforms.ExtractNewRecordState"
       }
    }
    ~~~
    
    Specify the **Connection URL** in [JDBC format]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/connect-to-the-database.md %}?filters=java&#step-5-connect-to-the-cluster). For information about where to find the CockroachDB connection parameters, see [Connect to a CockroachDB Cluster]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/connect-to-the-database.md %}).

> 

Reviewer: Wait, are we missing a step here? How do you actually create the sink using this config file?

Reviewer 2: That's a good point. We could add the step explicitly to POST this JSON to the `/connectors` endpoint for Kafka Connect and provide this reference documentation as a step 3 https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#connect_rest

I'd stop there though because from that point it should be handled on the Kafka side of things.

---
title: Migrate Data with Debezium
summary: Use Debezium to migrate data to a CockroachDB cluster.
toc: true
docs_area: migrate
---

[Debezium](https://debezium.io/) is a self-hosted distributed platform that can read data from a variety of sources and import it into Kafka. You can use Debezium to [migrate data to CockroachDB](#migrate-data-to-cockroachdb) from another database that is accessible over the public internet.

As of this writing, Debezium supports the following database [sources](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/index.html):

> - MongoDB

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should list the specific ones unless we are committing to keep the list up to date. Maybe we should mention that it supports many popular database such as ... maybe the first 5 here?

Author: It seems to be the precedent for all the other migration pages, was mostly going off these:
https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/striim
https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/aws-dms
https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/qlik

Reviewer: Ahh ok, makes sense. I didn't realize there was a precedent.
